# CPF/CNPJ Handler

"CPF/CNPJ Handler" is a library written in Java 8 that handles CPF and CNPJ validations.

## CNPJ Definitions

CNPJ (short for Cadastro Nacional da Pessoa Jurídica in Portuguese, or National Registry of Legal Entities) is an 
identification number issued to Brazilian companies by the Department of Federal Revenue of Brazil (in Portuguese, 
Secretaria da Receita Federal). The CNPJ consists of a 14-digit number formatted as 00.000.000/0001-00 — The first eight
digits identify the company, the four digits after the slash identify the branch or subsidiary ("0001" defaults to the 
headquarters), and the last two are check digits.

### Check Digits

The check digits are generated by using the following algorithms.

#### First Digit

A weighted sum is performed by using the first 12 digits and these weights, respectively: 
[5, 4, 3, 2, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2]. Then a *sum* mod *11* operation is performed. The result is the first check digit. 
If it is greater than 9, it becomes 0.

#### Second Digit

A weighted sum is performed by using the first 12 digits + the first check digit and these weights, respectively: 
[6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2]. Then a *sum* mod *11* operation is performed. The result is the second check 
digit. If it is greater than 9, it becomes 0.

## CPF Definitions

CPF (short for Cadastro de Pessoa Física in Portuguese, or Natural Persons Register")  is an identification number 
issued to Brazilian individual taxpayers by the Department of Federal Revenue of Brazil (in Portuguese, Secretaria da 
Receita Federal). The CPF consists of a 11-digit number formatted as 000.000.000-00 — The first eight digits identify 
the person, the ninth digit identify the region where the CPF was issued, and the last two are check digits.

### Check Digits

The check digits are generated by using the following algorithms.

#### First Digit

A weighted sum is performed by using the first 9 digits and these weights, respectively: 
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2]. Then a *sum* mod *11* operation is performed. The result is the first check digit. 
If it is greater than 9, it becomes 0.

#### Second Digit

A weighted sum is performed by using the first 9 digits + the first check digit and these weights, respectively: 
[11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2]. Then a *sum* mod *11* operation is performed. The result is the second check 
digit. If it is greater than 9, it becomes 0.